topic: update perlpolicy to reflect reality, and reality to reflect perlpolicy

- http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl5.porters/2014/06/msg216280.html
- specific points to clear up:
  - when is lexical scope (a la 'feature') required?
  - when do we break backcompat (since "serious harm" is bogus)
    - can we remove things just because they're stupid?
  - why can we deprecate things?
  - what about new warnings?
  - how does this apply to the XS API?
- posted on this, 2014-09-15
...
---
from: http://markmail.org/download.xqy?id=tvtqtdyqkrdll6xh&number=1
body: |
  =head1 BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY AND DEPRECATION

  Historically, this section described the very strict backwards
  compatibility policy used for maintaining Perl. This policy was strict to
  the point where even unintended bugs had to be cared for in the same way
  as documented features.

  This policy is no longer in effect, as the Perl 5 Porters feel that it was
  not useful anymore. The following is a condensed summary of what Perl 5
  Porters had to say on how they will maintain Perl, and thus is expected
  to reflect the state of thinking on this when this policy was written.

  This policy only applies to major version releases, for minor patch
  releases, the standards are still much higher.

  While backwards compatibility is still an important goal and should be
  kept unless there are overriding reasons, the bar for changes is low
  enough to give the Perl maintainers freedom to implement the changes they
  need.

  CPAN authors need to expect incompatibilities and have to deal with
  them in new major releases themselves. The Perl 5 maintainers are not
  expected to monitor CPAN, or keep older modules working. A module author
  is expected to be active enough to keep up with the release cycle. This
  is notwithstanding the fact that some people actively do monitor CPAN for
  breakage before release and make major efforts to help upgrade at least
  the more popular modules.

  This applies to other Perl users, but since nobody is forced to upgrade
  unless they want security support, so the importance for private modules
  and scripts is reduced, and obviously nobody can monitor code for breakage
  that they don't even know exists

  In many cases, backwards (and bug) compatibility, isn't achievable or
  reasonable. For example, reported security problems need to be fixed with
  priority, and it is better to have a bad patch that breaks some features
  then wait for a better patch and have the problem persist.

  There are many more cases where backwards compatibility isn't
  required. For Perl maintainers, any of the following considerations can
  weigh stronger than backwards compatibility:

  =over 4

  =item a feature is only rarely used on CPAN

  If a change simplifies maintenance, and the corresponding feature is
  only rarely used, you can consider the impact to be low enough for
  compatibility to not matter (certainly, 10 broken modules on CPAN isn't
  worth the effort if the required change is small).

  =item the change is easy to work around

  If a Perl change only requires a small effort when updating existing code,
  backwards compatibility should not be a concern.

  =item code breaks because of a new warning in an existing category

  Warnings and deprecations are not even considered to be part of any
  backwards compatibility policy. If a change merely deprecates a feature,
  or introduces a new warning, there is no need to consider possible
  implications.

  =item a feature is incompatible with a published third party standard

  It is better to ensure compatibility then have a potential
  incompatibility. The bar is not very high here, if you think a 3rd party
  standard disagrees with Perl, fix Perl.

  =item the change only affects XS code

  XS has has never been part of the Perl language, and has never been
  covered by any backwards compatibility policy. If a change makes sense
  (improves speed or clarity for example), then it should be fine.

  This includes documented interface which subtly change semantics - perlapi
  is only a guideline, and old code written before it existed is not worthy
  of preservation.

  =item a feature is an ugly thing of the past

  Perl is full of features that were thought to be useful in the 1980s, but
  don't hold up to modern scrutiny or development standards. If a feature
  is particularly ugly, doesn't make sense or should have never been in
  the language in the first place, and removing or changing it improves
  maintenance, backwards compatibility is not relevant.

  =item code breaks that saw it coming

  If a programmer used documented syntax in a weird way, or tried to exploit
  the darker corners of the language, it's not up to the Perl 5 maintainers
  to keep her code working. Perl users are expected to write reasonable
  code, and, failing that, to keep it updated. It is not the job of the Perl
  5 maintainers to keep exotic features working.

  =item breakage is caused by a patch that adds new functionality

  New functionality trumps backwards compatibility. While gratuitously
  breaking code is still unacceptable, nobody can be forced to fix patches
  that accidentally break things.

  =back

  A partial reason for this new policy is lack of volunteers - while there
  are enough volunteers to add interesting features to the language, there
  are simply too few that can invest time into lengthy investigations of
  compatibility issues. Help is always appreciated, and without doubt,
  backwards compatibility can be improved by having more volunteers that can
  clean up problems that were accidentally introduced.

  Again, due to the volunteer nature of Perl development, this policy is
  only a guideline. Nobody should be kept from subjecting himself to higher
  standards.

  Specifically, the pumpkin can impose higher standards for a release,
  especially if a lot, say, 20 or more, of CPAN distributions are affected.

  This policy was written by summarising the publicly stated positions of
  the following people: Zefram, Aristotle Pagaltzis, Eric Brine, George
  Greer, Ricardo Signes, Brad Gilbert, Dagfinn Ilmari Mannsåker, H.Merijn
  Brand and Karl Williamson, in no particular order.

